Add Xogot Godot showcase (#1297)
godotengine/godot-website: collections/_article/godot-showcase-xogot.md

---
title: "Godot Showcase – Xogot: Godot for iPad & iPhone"

> excerpt: "Miguel de Icaza from Xibbon is sharing with us his experience working on Xogot for iOS."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: "Miguel de Icaza from Xibbon shares his experience working on Xogot for iOS."
```

categories: ["showcase"]
author: Adam Scott
image: /storage/blog/covers/godot-showcase-xogot.jpg
date: 2026-03-25 18:00:00
---

> We're happy to showcase a project that released last year, but was long in the making. The folks at Xibbon have been working hard to port the Godot Engine to the iOS platforms. They weren't content with simply porting the editor to make it run on iOS, as it can be quite easy for an experienced developer to do so. They successfully interfaced the editor with a custom iOS interface in order to make the engine match Apple strict UI and UX guidelines. Using their app on the iPad and iPhone feel totally native, _because it is_!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're happy to showcase a project that released last year, but was long in the making. The folks at Xibbon have been working hard to port the Godot Engine to the iOS platforms. Not only did they port the editor to make it run on iOS, they successfully interfaced the editor with a custom iOS interface in order to make the engine match Apple strict UI and UX guidelines. Using their app on the iPad and iPhone feels totally native, _because it is_!
```

Xibbon has been active in our community, in terms of code contributions and events. Xibbon has been our sponsor at events, such as the first [GodotCon in the US](/article/godotcon-us-2025-wrapup/)!

Today, [Miguel de Icaza](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miguel_de_Icaza), known for starting the [GNOME](https://www.gnome.org/), [Mono](https://www.mono-project.com/), and [Xamarin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xamarin) projects, is sharing with us his experience developing his iOS app.

---

## Can you tell us a little bit about your project?

Xogot brings the Godot Editor to the iPad and the iPhone as a native iOS application.

> Xogot uses the Godot Editor and the Godot Engine, but we provide an alternative user interface and shell that is built on top of Apple’s native user interface elements and we tuned the user experience to be both touch friendly and to work with the more limited screen space on these devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Xogot uses the Godot Editor and the Godot Engine, but we provide an alternative user interface and shell that is built on top of Apple’s native user interface elements. We tuned the user experience to be both touch friendly and to work with the more limited screen space on these devices.
```

By being a new user interface on top of the existing Godot Editor, we remain compatible with the desktop Godot and users can move seamlessly between the platforms, but we also wanted to make a product that truly belonged on the iPad, not merely running the desktop experience on the iPad.

While I am an engineer, the joy that I derive from using creative apps on the iPad is unmatched.

> Interacting with the world with our fingers is one of the earliest skills that we acquire as babies - and I find the physical feedback of using touch user interfaces to be very rewarding.  Not only do I spend hours playing with my iPad, I also love watching creators use their iPads for sketching, drawing, modeling, composing, editing videos and building games.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Interacting with the world with our fingers is one of the earliest skills that we acquire as babies - and I find the physical feedback of using touch user interfaces to be very rewarding.  Not only do I spend hours playing with my iPad, I also love watching creators use their iPads for sketching, drawing, modeling, composing, editing videos, and building games.
```

## Why did you want to build Xogot?

Xogot is very much a labor of love, the result of a perfect storm of conditions and a way of expanding our own horizons and getting out of our comfort zone.

> We have worked on the mobile world for almost fourteen years, and built developer tools for helping .NET developers target mobile platforms.  Mostly building IDEs and Tools and supporting others on their adventures to bring software to users (among those, funding the early effort to bring .NET to Godot)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have worked on the mobile world for almost fourteen years, and built developer tools for helping .NET developers target mobile platforms. Mostly building IDEs and tools and supporting others on their adventures to bring software to users (among those, funding the early effort to bring .NET to Godot).
```

We wanted to get out of our comfort zone, and build an end-user product that followed the ethos of iOS developers that obsess over highly polished apps. Products that obsess over the details of the user experience and strive to create delightful user interfaces.

> For almost sixteen years we have helped folks in the game industry adopt the .NET for game development, and we supported various games, engines and hardware vendors with their efforts to bring our compilers and tools to their systems. Just like we were inspired by the iOS community, we are inspired by the game developer community - people pouring their hearts out exploring ways of entertaining and surprising us, and we wanted to get closer to this joyful world.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For almost sixteen years we have helped folks in the game industry adopt .NET for game development, and we supported various games, engines, and hardware vendors with their efforts to bring our compilers and tools to their systems. Just like we were inspired by the iOS community, we are inspired by the game developer community - people pouring their hearts out exploring ways of entertaining and surprising us, and we wanted to get closer to this joyful world.
```

Lastly, we all witnessed a major turning point in the game-engine industry when Unity’s leadership made decisions that shook developer trust across the community.  We watched as the industry rushed to find alternatives - and being emotionally invested already in Godot, we were very much in the camp “How can we give the Godot community an edge?”.

## What was challenging about bringing the Godot Editor to the iPad and iPhone?

This is the poster child of a slippery slope, or an extreme case of Yak Shaving.

There are three buckets of challenges:
- Multi-process

> - User Experience

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- User experience
```

Adapting Godot from a desktop application into a pleasant, touch-first, iPad application was a lot of work, and we were convinced there was no more shrinking or adjusting in our future. But even during the beta period before we launched the iPad version, our testers kept asking us for an iPhone version. We were not convinced that this was necessary, but our users kept telling us all the reasons why they would want this - tuning their apps, experimenting on the go, testing an idea during small breaks, adjusting some properties of their game during their bus or train ride or during their lunch breaks.

> But there is a big gap between what people tell you they want and what they are actually going to do, so we remained skeptical for a long time. The first time we reconsidered this was when we heard a presentation from Chad Stewart on using Godot on Android where he shared his real life experiences doing his work on the go. Then the Godot foundation shared information about usage of Godot on Android, on phones and tablets - and it was then that we grasped that for some folks their phone is their sole computing device. So not only was this possible, for some folks it was a necessity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But there is a big gap between what people tell you they want and what they are actually going to do, so we remained skeptical for a long time. The first time we reconsidered this was when we heard a presentation from Chad Stewart on using Godot on Android where he shared his real-life experiences doing his work on the go. Then the Godot foundation shared information about usage of Godot on Android, on phones and tablets - and it was then that we grasped that for some folks their phone is their sole computing device. So not only was this possible, for some folks it was a necessity.
```

Xogot has been a multi-year effort and a significant engineering investment. It’s a commercial product created by a small team deeply passionate about both Godot and Apple platforms. Xogot includes a free tier open to everyone, with the complete version provided at no cost to students and contributors to the Godot open-source project.

## What are the biggest differences between the Xogot and the Godot Editor?

Xogot has two major limitations. First, it can not run third-party plugins authored in native code, or run .NET code. The reason for the former is that Apple’s security system does not allow for third-party dynamic code to be loaded into a process, so all of these plugins fail.

And the ability to run .NET code is not something we have worked on.

## Considering the improvements made to adapt to the new form factor, are there any plans on bringing Xogot to other platforms?

> We want to bring Xogot to the Apple Vision Pro. Anecdotally, just before we decided to embark on bringing Godot to the iPad, we were working on building frameworks and games for the VisionPro.  We were going to our first Boston Unity meeting to learn more about Unity and Vision when the Boston Unity group disbanded in response to Unity’s license changes. It was in this turmoil that we were inspired to jump headlong into the Godot world.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We want to bring Xogot to the Apple Vision Pro. Anecdotally, just before we decided to embark on bringing Godot to the iPad, we were working on building frameworks and games for the Vision Pro.  We were going to our first Boston Unity meeting to learn more about Unity and Vision when the Boston Unity group disbanded in response to Unity’s license changes. It was in this turmoil that we were inspired to jump headlong into the Godot world.
```

I would love to participate more directly in Godot’s workgroups and community discussions. Balancing that with running a company and raising three kids can be challenging, but I have enormous respect for the dedication and care of the Godot team. My hope is that over time we can contribute not just code, but also ideas and processes that help strengthen the community.

## What’s next for Xogot?

We’re especially excited about Xogot Connect, our new open-source Godot add-on that lets developers on Windows, Linux, or macOS easily run and debug their projects on iPhone or iPad without the usual complexity of exporting to iOS, building in Xcode, or managing provisioning profiles.

Our goal is to keep expanding that bridge between desktop and mobile development. Xogot Connect already makes it simple to configure on-screen controls in your game by enabling the iOS Virtual Controller in Project Settings, and we have a few more ideas like this in the works that bring the mobile-specific affordances we’ve developed for Xogot directly to Godot developers on the desktop and make targeting mobile smoother and more approachable.

---

> I would like to thank Miguel de Icaza for sharing with us the experience of your ride of adapting the Godot Editor specifically for a new platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I would like to thank Miguel de Icaza for sharing with us the experience of his ride of adapting the Godot Editor specifically for a new platform.
```

You can easily find Xogot [in the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/xogot-godot-for-ipad-iphone/id6469385251) or at [its homepage](https://xogot.com/).

> Also, don't forget to check out Xogot Connect in the [Godot Asset Library](https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/4472). (expect it to be also in the upcoming Asset Store!)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, don't forget to check out Xogot Connect in the [Godot Asset Library](https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/4472). (Expect it to be also in the upcoming Asset Store!)
```
